What is Angular?

A strongly opinionated, MVC, framework

Set of code that someone else wrote (in javascript)

More than library, has broader functionality.

Framework: code that someone else has written that you can use in your project.  it's bigger than a library.  It's intended to be an all in one solution.  One stop shop for front end needs. 

MVC  - Model View Controller: Pattern for designing graphical applications of all types (not just web dev).  

Three parts: 

	Model - Raw data. Javascript objects, server data, API, etc.  Can come from several sources.  Also includes state of application.  Editing, not editing, active, inactive, etc.    
	
	View - Visual representation of your model.  
	
	Controller - What connects model (data) to view (visual representation) Can be impacted by user.  Glue that connects view/model.  

Imperative Programming: Program performs list of actions or series of actions.  Angular makes imperative programming very difficult.  

Declarative Programming: Not a series of actions.  Declare relationships between different pieces of code.  Declare between model, view.  

Dependencies - code the app or bit of code is dependent on.  variables from other pieces of JS that you need in your code.  prevents accidental variable spillover.  

directive === ng-XXXX 
ng-click defines what to do when element is clicked on.

ng-class - specifies class based on specified variable string
		 - may also use with boolean value.  if that value is true, class is applied to that element. for ng-class as boolean:  ng-class="{big : important}"  how this reads - if IMPORTANT is TRUE, appy BIG.   

random - input type in html = range 

ng-show: dynamically hide or reveal element based on boolean

< img ng-src = "{{sourcevariable}}">

event handling 
event.prevent default()

ng-keypress= namedfunction()
ng-submit - automatically prevents default behaviors 

keydown - moment any key goes down
keyup - moment any key comes up
keypress - triggers any time a typing event would produce a charcter

